all right let's all have some empathy
for the itsy bitsy spider who crawled up
the waterspout huh
these enormous things will make you feel
tiny in comparison now don't let anybody
fool you size certainly matters human
beings tend to associate size with
authority and power which is probably
why we use phrases like the bigger the
better and put so much emphasis on
making it big when it comes to these
things in this video it's been confirmed
time and time again that bigger is
better before we tell you about the
biggest things on earth don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
notifications so that you never miss any
of our new content all right number one
the biggest landmasses let's start with
the basics the biggest landmass on the
planet is the continent of asia both by
size and population asia has an area of
just over 17 million 100,000 square
miles in his home to over 4 billion
people more than half of that population
is concentrated in two countries China
and India you can also find the highest
mountain peaks in the world on this
continent the Himalayan mountain range
stretches to a length of about 1,500
miles across the borders of Bhutan Nepal
China India and Pakistan
it has over 50 Peaks exceeding twenty
three thousand six hundred feet in
elevation including Mount Everest
now Mount Everest sits at 29,029 feet
making it the highest point of elevation
on earth since humans like big things
and since they're there humans can't
keep off of this
there have been 6871 recorded summits of
this behemoth now don't let that number
fool you though this is an
extraordinarily difficult expedition to
make not to make
a dangerous one there have been 223
deaths on the mountain and those bodies
may never be recovered the air on this
peak is too thin for a helicopter to fly
in and it's enough of a logistical
challenge to get people up not to
mention getting more people back down
Everest is so high up that a jet stream
can hit it and the winds can reach up to
200 miles per hour when the weather
shifts not to mention the risk of
blizzards and avalanches yeah sounds
like fun to me
[Music]
number two the biggest trees more big
things in nature include the giant
sequoia of California Sequoia National
Park this enormous tree affectionately
named General Sherman has fifty two
thousand five hundred cubic feet of
trunk volume which is equal to more than
half the volume of an Olympic sized
swimming pool General Sherman is all too
this tree has been around for about two
thousand years but that's only
middle-aged in giant sequoia ears as
many others are at least 3200 years old
and well general Sherman is right tall
at 275 feet he's not the highest tree in
the world that title belongs to Hyperion
another California tree which stands at
380 feet this redwood is part of a
family of ridiculously tall trees and
its siblings Helios Icarus and Daedalus
stand at 374 371 and 363 feet tall
respectively number three the biggest
tree stumps some of you may remember
hearing about a gigantic petrified tree
stump being discovered in Wyoming last
year that would have put General Sherman
in a Hyperion to shame unfortunately it
turns out that this tree stump wasn't a
tree stump at all geologists think that
it's actually an eroded remnant of a
laccolith which is a sheet intrusion
between layers of sedimentary rock
that's not to say huge petrified tree
stones don't exist on the contrary
there's a hollowed stump in Kokomo
Indiana that measures 57 feet around 18
feet wide
and 11 feet high newspapers published at
the time of his discovery put the stump
at around 1500 years old at least twice
the age of Hyperion number 4 the biggest
person Robert Wadlow the tallest person
in the world was almost as tall as that
tree stop before he died in 1940 wad low
was recorded at almost nine feet tall he
peaked at 8 feet 11 inches his continued
growth was due to a condition called
gigantism which causes the afflicted
person's pituitary gland to grow
abnormally large and produce more human
growth hormone than necessary turning
them into well a giant white lows great
size took its toll on his body and he
had to wear specially made leg braces to
walk one of those braces caused his
ankle to blister and when the blister
became infected emergency surgery and
blood transfusions couldn't save him he
died at 22 years old and he's still the
tallest person in recorded history
number five the biggest pizza we wonder
how much a nine foot tall person eats
well if Wadlow had been born a bit later
he might have had the chance to enjoy
the world's largest pizza which was
prepared by a team of five Italian chefs
in 2012 it had a total surface area of
13,000 580 square feet and measured 131
feet across whoa the recipe called for
1488 pounds of margarine 19800 pounds of
flour 10,000 pounds of tomato sauce 8800
pounds of mozzarella 551 pounds of salt
220 pounds of lettuce and 55 pounds of
vinegar whoo let's see if there's a
building big enough to hold this bad boy
otherwise we'll have to get a pizza box
a really big pizza box
number six the biggest building the
tallest building in the world is the
Burj Khalifa in Dubai measuring a total
of two thousand seven hundred twenty two
feet high and three million three
hundred thousand square feet the
construction of this colossal structure
began in 2004 and the building was
officially opened in 2010 there are 57
elevators and eight escalators inside to
help residents and workers get around
it's 163 floors
it caused 1.5 billion dollars to build
the biggest building in the world by
volume is the Boeing Everett factory in
Everett Washington it's where they
assemble those huge wide-body airplanes
such as the 747 767 777 and the 787 how
big is this place you ask it's more than
13 million 300 thousand square feet in
volume it could accommodate nearly 4
Burj Khalifa's you'd have to lay them
down to fit them in and covers nearly
100 acres number seven the biggest
amusement park and roller coaster once
you're done playing around in the
world's biggest and tallest buildings
how about trying your hand at the
world's biggest amusement park if we're
counting in terms of attendance then
that park is the Magic Kingdom at the
Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando
Florida which can see up to 50 million
visitors in the single year in terms of
actual size Disney World comes in first
again with 47 square miles of land a lot
of that land is undeveloped but it still
falls under the Disney corporations
ownership the developed land includes
four individual theme parks two water
parks hotels and other attractions so
you're sure to find something to
entertain yourself true adrenaline
junkies might want to seek entertainment
elsewhere though the biggest roller
coaster in the world is the king dacha
at Six Flags Great Adventure in New
Jersey this monster coaster features a
456 foot peak of
418 foot drop and travels at a hundred
twenty-eight miles an hour
Wow that'll certainly get you revved up
and raring to go number eight the
biggest forest and wildlife
but if amusement parks just aren't your
style and you'd like to go back to
nature
you can try exploring the largest forest
in the world the Amazon rainforest is
over two million one hundred thousand
square miles an area which covers land
belonging to nine countries sixty
percent of the forest land is in Brazil
thirteen percent in Peru ten percent in
Colombia and minor amounts in Venezuela
Ecuador Bolivia Guyana Suriname and
French Guiana
in addition to being the world's largest
forest it's also the most biodiverse
with an estimated 390 million individual
trees divided into 16,000 species all of
this biodiversity doesn't lend itself to
housing the largest animals in the world
though that honor goes to the world's
oceans in the countries of sub-saharan
Africa the blue whale is up to 98 feet
long and weighs 190 tons making it the
largest sea dwelling creatures in the
world and possibly the largest creature
to ever exist the African bush elephant
is the largest terrestrial animal and it
can grow to be nineteen point seven feet
tall and weigh over 12 tons they can be
found in the grasslands of Kenya
Tanzania Angola Botswana Zimbabwe and
Namibia number 9 the biggest aircraft if
you'd like to visit these gentle giants
why not try using the world's biggest
aircraft to get there Soviet aviation
engineers built the Antonov an-225 also
known as the Morea during the Cold War
the Antonov holds the record for the
largest winged aircraft ever built
separate from the airlander 10 airship
which is the largest flying vehicle ever
it's 275 feet long with a wingspan of
290 feet and a height of 59 feet
including fuel and its own bulk the
Antonov can hold a capacity of 705
tons for comparison the iconic Boeing
747 engineered by Americans has a length
of 249 feet a wingspan of 223 feet a
height of 62 feet and a hole capacity of
493 tons the Antonov is currently being
used as a heavy cargo transport plane so
you won't actually be able to use it to
go and see those elephants it can
certainly hold a few of them though so
maybe try sending it on Safari and
having the pilot bring you a couple new
pets just remember to pack their trunks
number 10 the biggest monster trucks and
motorcycles while we're on this subject
of vehicles have you ever wondered how
big the most monstrous monster truck is
funnily enough this truck is called Big
Foot five and it has more than earned
its name built in 1986 by Bob Maryland
Chandler Bigfoot weighs in at over
28,000 pounds stands at fifteen and a
half feet tall and uses ten foot tall
firestone tundra tires Wow where's the
spare
now if monster hogs are more your speed
then look no further than the Reggio
design XXL chopper the largest mountable
motorcycle in the world this monstrosity
is 31 point 8 feet long and is powered
by a 5,000 cubic centimetre 5.8 liter v8
Chevrolet engine with 280 horsepower
capability its builder Fabio reggiani
debuted his creation at the 2012
motorbike Expo where it officially broke
the record previously held by the
monster cycle a 20 foot long one and a
half time bike built by Gregory Donna
well these guys must have a lot of spare
time on their hands Earth is the fifth
largest planet in the solar system but
its inhabitants don't let that stop them
humans will keep being drawn to
discovering and building big things for
as long as there are other humans around
to show off for if you enjoyed learning
about the biggest things on earth give
this video a like and share it with
someone else who will appreciate the
scope of these truly enormous
things what's the biggest thing you've
ever seen tell us in the comments below
until next time always remember to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]
you